# Project contribution guidelines

Want to contriubute to Texpainter? Here are some instructions to follow when contributing to
Texpainter.

## Submitting bug reports and feature requests

To submit a bug report or feature request, open an issue on the
[New Issue page](https://github.com/milasudril/texpainter/issues/new/choose). Choose the appropriate
template. You may also choose to oepn a blank issue if your issue does not fit in any of the two
categories.

## Hacking

To get started, make sure you have installed [Maike](https://github.com/milasudril/maike), and
all build dependencies. You will also need to have an up-to-date C++ compiler since source code uses
features from C++20.

### Writing documentation

To improve the documentation, you should be familiar with Markdown, as this is the markup language
used to document Texpainter. The documentation is generated by a Python 3 script that is invoked for
every Markdown file in the source tree. A directory that has an `index.md` file will appear make the
directory appear in the `Sections` for the parent directory. As an example, if the directory
structure is

* index.md
* foo
  * index.md

The title (actually the first line) in foo/index.md will appear in `Sections` section on the top
level. Since pandoc is used to process the Markdown files, the presenec of this tool is required The
documentation is generated with the command

```sh
make doc
```

Run

```sh
make doc_check
```

to validate hyperlinks. This requires `html-proofer`.

### Writing Image processors

TODO

### Doing other stuff

TODO